!* commandSubst true
! source -directory plugins posts.tcl
! namespace import posts::starRating
The following is a list of the books I read and wrote brief reviews for in 2015.  I find book reviews hard to write, partly as I am reluctant to jot down notes as I read the book for fear of not fully immersing myself in the tale.  So while the reviews don't do the books justice, I do however, like to keep a list of the books I have read and by putting them on my blog they are easily accessible.

## Diary of a Nobody by George & Weedon Grossmith

[starRating 4] - Finished December 2015

The story provides a great insight into lower middle class Victorian sensibilities.  It follows the events in Mr Pooter's life in relation to him; his wife, Carries; and his son, Lupin.  All the events are fairly run of the mill, perhaps a little less so for Lupin, but they are described with such light perfection that they come across as charming.  I often felt a connection with the events, aspirations and worries in Mr Pooter's Life of over a hundred years ago.

## For Whom the Bell Tolls by Ernest Hemingway

[starRating 4] - Finished November 2015

Set during the Spanish civil war, this story follows an American tasked with organizing a small group of Spanish guerillas in blowing up a bridge to aid a larger operation to fight against the fascists.  I enjoyed the characters and the interplay between them.

## Snow Crash by Neal Stephenson

[starRating 4] - Finished October 2015

After an awful start it turned out to be quite a good story.

## Thus Spoke Zarathustra by Friedrich Nietzche (Translated by Graham Parkes)

[starRating 3] - Finished September 2015

This was interesting but quite drawn out and I found it hard going at points; quite often I didn't know what was going on.  I did however like the idea of 'Will to power'.

## Untold Stories by Alan Bennett

[starRating 4] - Finished July 2015

A great insight into Alan's life.  I didn't really know anything about him before reading this, but found his reflections fascinating.

## Relentless by Simon Kernick

[starRating 5] - Finished May 2015

Kernick writes in a fast paced style that is indeed 'relentless'.  This crime thriller is a real page turner that I found hard to put down.

## The Cold Moon by Jeffery Deaver

[starRating 3.5] - Finished April 2015

A murder mystery with a dizzying array of plot twists.

## The Fall by Albert Camus

[starRating 4] - Finished March 2015

The book consists of one side of a conversation, where the person who's side of the conversation we read is espousing his philosophy for gaining freedom and liberation by falling from society and finally encourages the person with whom he is conversing to free himself by falling similarly.

## The Gods Themselves by Isaac Asimov

[starRating 4] - Finished March 2015

A story about the inconvenient truth that when an infinite power source was discovered that it would make the sun explode and hence everyone within the universe.  A few people were prepared to fight for this truth and find a solution.  Those people were in different universes and could only guess about each other and yet they strived.

## Trade Your Way to Financial Freedom by Van K. Tharp

[starRating 5] - Finished February 2015

A fantastic book showing you how to fit a trading system to you and understand what will make it work or not.  It particularly concentrates on showing how to think of your trades in terms of reward to risk and how to use position sizing to achieve your system's aims.

## The Outsider by Albert Camus

[starRating 4] - Finished January 2015

Camus explores what happens when Meursault, the lead character, lives a life with little pretence, where he is honest and doesn't try to fit in with the expectations and absurdities of the world.
